# Reflection

reflection.md (Write a brief 1-page reflection on how this iteration has gone and how you successfully operated as a well-functioning team.)

Iteration 1 has been completed mostly as expected.  We would say that we had a turbulent start because of the team members, e.g. Our time tables don?t allow us to meet each other, we weren't thinking as a group, we were thinking as 4 Individuals who don't know where to start.  But then as the week went on, we realised that there are many requirements and it could be done more efficiently when done as a group.  Not only that, we were able to come to an agreement on things like what is "more to the marker's tastes" and "which doesn't really apply here".  We also realised that by working as a group (in the same room) we were able to minimize as many merge conflicts as possible.  As some of us had better understandings of certain components, some members would think of more better and more efficient ways of testing or writing user stories.  In the end, we thought about splitting the requirements equally into 4 sections, but after looking at the marking guidelines, since each part is weighed differently, so we decided it was unfair for some of us to do heavily weighted tasks instead of the lightly weighted tasks.  Therefore, we decided that to work as a fully-functional team, we needed to assign each part of the project evenly among our group. 

By doing this group work we were able to learn the importance of teamwork and that we were able to achieve our goal through collaboration.  We also learned that communication was very important because we needed to discuss what our goal was and how we were going to achieve it. We believed that a face to face collaboration is more convenient because we feel more comfortable sharing ideas and there was less meaning lost than in online messaging. We have also learned the importance of participation and commitment because we have divided the workload among our members, since if one person does not finish their part, the whole team suffers.

Moreover, working in a group allows us to bounce more ideas of each other and brainstorm more effectively. For example, we were able to discuss user stories and plan as team which enabled us to come up with more robust ideas for the project. Also, we learned that can members play to their strengths in teams and let other members cover for weaknesses and provide an opportunity to learn and improve. Since some of us did more heavily weighted task and others did more lightly weighted task, members learned at different rates, which lead each of us having specialised knowledge of our sections but limited knowledge of other part of the project. To ensure that all of us had broad knowledge of the entire project, we had a face to face discussion on all the sections that where included on iteration 1 where everyone had a chance to ask questions and contribute ? leading to more informed and synchronised collaboration. This would be beneficial in the next stage, because members will need a strong overview knowledge of the project to ensure that the functions, we develop will be relevant and achieve the desired outcome.